you've got the best tickets now you're
in the airport
rushing to your gate when you're waiting
at the security checkpoint
find the line where business looking
people are standing they're obviously
more frequent travelers
and they get through security way faster
well
you're on the plane and the flight
attendants seem to be ignoring you
did you book a seat in the back
should've you'll get the quickest
service there
since these seats are closer to where
the cabin crew hang out in the galley if
this airline doesn't offer in-flight
movies
put your phone in a sandwich baggie and
close it up in the tray table
there you go quick homemade hands-free
screen
you ever get dizzy during long flights
it's because the pressure makes the
blood travel away from your brain
and gather in your legs wear compression
socks to prevent this
and don't forget to pack a tennis ball
in your carry-on
you can roll it under your foot or on
your back for a much-needed mid-flight
massage
cramming hundreds of people into a metal
tube is a great way to spread germs
even if no one in a row is coughing or
sneezing you might not be in the clear
surfaces like tray tables call buttons
and bathroom doors
don't always get wiped down between
flights case in point
bring some hand sanitizer and
antibacterial wipes with you when you
fly
you might also want to think twice
before accepting pillows and blankets
while airlines usually try to keep them
clean there isn't always time to wash
them between flights
consider bringing your own pillow and
blanket unless you like resting your
head in someone else's dandruff
ew lightning storms bumpy landings
germs we've covered pretty much
everything i fear about flying
but what about you let me know down in
the comments
if you're afraid of turbulence you're
going to like this next point
any pilot will tell you that early
morning flights are your best
bet if you want to avoid heavy
turbulence the sun heats the air during
the day
which contributes to stronger winds heat
reflecting off the ground
is also a major factor in clear weather
turbulence
taking off in the morning before the sun
has time to finish heating things up
is a great way to avoid both these
problems clear weather also means fewer
chances for flights to get backed up
so delays are less likely
the pilot doesn't eat the same things as
their passengers but this is more of a
safety precaution than a perk of the job
their meals are usually made by the same
people and of the same quality as what
everyone else gets
but are prepared separately they also
can't eat the same things as each other
the idea is that if one of them gets
sick from what they ate
the other pilot will still be healthy
enough to fly the plane
many airlines also let pilots bring
their own food from home
given the usual quality of airplane food
i wouldn't be surprised if that's a
popular choice
it's tempting to think of planes as
being run like ships
with one person in charge and everyone
else following their lead
there are even nautical inspired terms
like captain and first officer
instead of pilot and co-pilot the
reality
is that while the captain is usually the
more experienced of the two
it's more of a partnership than a boss
subordinate relationship
the pilot and co-pilot are both equally
responsible for the safety of the flight
and they're both equally equipped to
handle any situation that might crop
up it's not unusual for the co-pilot to
be in full control of the plane without
the captain's direct supervision
like in the case of the ladders in the
bathroom because of some
undercooked chicken oh my prospective
commercial pilots first need to earn a
bachelor's degree
then choose a flight school you can end
up spending hundreds of thousands of
dollars on training and certification
once that's done you finally have your
pilot's license
now you need 1500 hours of flight
experience to qualify for an airline
transport
pilot certificate and what's the fastest
way to rack up that flight time
by renting a plane and flying it around
which isn't cheap let me tell you
your pilot and flight attendants need
some rest on long flights too
there are secret compartments above your
head at both ends of the airplane
where the pilot and crew can squeeze and
nap in
small stairs lead to these sleeping
quarters behind the cockpit
and at the back of the plane either
behind a locked door or a hatch
disguised as a storage bin there's a bed
a phone and curtains for privacy if
needed the crew member can control the
brightness in the compartment
and in bigger planes they're even
equipped with a tv
not every crew rest cabin or crc
has this feature but they do on really
big commercial planes
and some private planes this way if
they're on an especially long flight
the flight attendants and pilot can grab
a shower or just have some privacy to
freshen up
if you have an aisle seat there's a
button under your armrest by the hinge
that not many people know about
if you press this button the arm rest
will slide down
completely parallel to your seat giving
you some extra leg and elbow room
it's really there so you can exit the
plane more quickly if there's an
emergency
but you can still press this handy
little button to make yourself
more comfortable have you ever noticed
how flight attendants always seem to
slide their hands over the overhead
compartments
as they walk the aisle of the plane most
overhead compartments have edges on the
bottom
into which a handrail is molded this
helps them to get a better grip and keep
their balance
this is how flight attendants look so
graceful as they move
quickly along the plane try it for
yourself on your next flight
plus it's much better than stumbling
into other passengers laps
what if there's an unruly passenger
disturbing your flight
i mean you can't exactly kick them out
of the plane although i'd pay extra to
see that
just kidding so for these situations
every plane is equipped with
handcuffs hopefully using the handcuffs
will calm the situation down
but if not you might have an unscheduled
landing on your hands
there are fire extinguishers on every
flight too which is standard safety
but did you know that most flights also
have an axe or
crowbar on board this is for rare
emergency landings
so the windows of the plane can be
broken open well
sort of i'm talking about air marshals
they're generally used for international
flights
air marshals are basically the police of
the airplane
they can make arrests but they won't
intervene in a standard
rowdy passenger situation they're mostly
there to watch over the flight and keep
everyone safe
you probably never figure out who the
air marshal is though
they'll be dressed like any other
passenger and could be seated anywhere
they blend right in except for that big
shiny badge and the cowboy hat
no not really when passenger flight
service was first introduced
it was a privilege only for the wealthy
there weren't classes in the cabin with
their different levels of comfort
all passengers were first class because
air travel was so expensive
if you wanted to fly from chicago to
phoenix and back in the late 50s you'd
have to shell out what would be like
twelve hundred dollars today that price
point could explain why all passengers
were dressed like they were at the
theater
that was just the atmosphere of an
aircraft cabin some 80 years ago
being on board was a big deal and
travelers tried to look their best
the plane wasn't just a vehicle it was a
way to show off your status
fancy clothes of the past or comfy cabin
wear of today
i'll let you decide who gets this point
down in the comments
so fitting of the high priced tickets
and the fancy getups
some planes had a real piano on board so
you can enjoy some live music while you
fly
i'll take my in-flight movie over a big
bulky piano any day
okay fine i'll give a point for the
sophistication
the food offered on an airplane was like
in a real restaurant
the dishes were served on fine china you
got silverware instead of flimsy
disposable utensils
and beverages were poured into glassware
not those little plastic or cardboard
cups
you could be served roast beef prime rib
and lobster
definitely beats chicken or fish old
planes
get one point just a net shelf that held
your bag over your head
and remember flights were rockier back
then
seems like an accident waiting to happen
good thing we have those sturdy closable
carry-on bins today
they came around in the 70s in case you
were wondering and they've earned modern
planes
one more point seats that can fit your
hips
leg and elbow room that existed for this
fact alone
the old days of aviation should win this
contest
but let's be fair as air travel became
more affordable and common
passenger numbers went up and airlines
had to adjust
seats got smaller and we had to get more
personal with our neighbors
that's your elbow in my rib and nice to
meet you by the way
when the pilot is sharing flight info
with you they
nonchalantly mention extreme outside
temperatures of minus 70 degrees yet
similar figures can keep a plane from
taking off in the first place
the temperatures at cruising altitude
and on the ground
are entirely different things on the
ground
bitter cold in the minus 60 degree range
makes starting the
engine much harder add to that de-icing
the plane and runway
as well as keeping maintenance crews
safe out there in sub-zero temperatures
and you can see the problem if one
engine fails the aircraft can continue
flying safely for over five hours
granted it'll be less fuel efficient
and gradually drift down from normal
cruising altitude
but all modern planes on long distance
routes are tested to cope with that
situation
and pilots are trained for it in fact
planes can even glide for a while with
no
functioning engines at all ok they might
not drop from the sky immediately
but i still like having all those
backups just in case
thanks to the wonder that is autopilot a
plane can perfectly fly itself across
the globe
meanwhile the human pilots can doze off
but there are regulations on that
only one pilot at a time can take a
snooze and there are still things an
autopilot
is incapable of taxiing landing
setting the start and end locations and
making witty jokes while briefing
passengers about the flight
deboarding usually adds up to an extra
half an hour to flight time
but computer simulations show that it
can be done 35 percent faster
all you'd have to do is de-board by
aisle not by row
let's imagine a cabin layout with one
aisle in the middle
and rows of three on each side first
left aisle passengers leave the plane
then the right aisle
next are middle seat passengers on the
left side followed by those on the right
finally the left window seats and then
the right
it might be a problem for passengers
traveling together but it's a great way
to avoid aisle blocking
one reason airlines aren't using this
method just yet
they're more interested in making some
extra money selling first class and
priority seats
so there the way it is now by group
the plane gets loaded from the back to
the front after first
business and priority classes of course
well la dee da the whole process would
be much faster
if people were allowed to choose their
own seats on the plane
they'd feel the rush to grab a spot
instead of standing around putting their
carry-on in the bin
an even better way to cut down boarding
time would be to let passengers board by
aisle first all window seats then middle
then aisle again it would cut down the
time we have to wait for others to get
their stuff put away
but for some reason airlines aren't
doing it
another widespread myth is that once the
plane takes off
pilots can sit back and enjoy the ride
the autopilot will do its job
during the flight there can be
communications issues route changes
navigational problems pilots always have
some task at hand
for example monitoring fuel burn
watching for other planes and whatnot
especially what not boy i had a whole
day of what not the other day
even though pilots don't have their
hands on the wheel as often as before
they're still in control of everything
that's happening with the plane
becoming a commercial airline pilot will
cost you thousands of dollars
whether it is 60 thousand or one hundred
thousand dollars
depends on the flight school where you
train and the type of your training
hours of flight experience also cost a
fortune and you need a lot of them
in general to get a commercial pilot
certificate
you need at least 250 flight hours under
your belt
but some airlines don't hire pilots
without fifteen hundred to four
thousand hours of flight experience but
it doesn't mean that they can fly
anywhere they want at any convenient
time a pilot has the same benefits as
anyone else working for the airline
just like other employees they have to
wait for a standby
which means an available seat on the
needed flight
most pilots don't want their vacation to
rely on such an unpredictable situation
and pay for their tickets every 12
months
pilots have to complete something like a
driving test only in an airplane
every year or half a year depending on
their age
pilots have to pass a medical
examination
every six months pilots have their
emergency procedure simulator assessment
besides those there is also technical
testing
aviation security and dangerous goods
examination training
and so on if a pilot fails any of these
they get removed from their flight
duties there's a misleading belief that
co-pilots are either trainees or
subordinates
that do nothing but wait for the captain
to give them orders
this opinion couldn't be further from
the truth co-pilots are fully qualified
professionals who can easily fly the
plane
their job title isn't about skills it's
about
seniority pilots and co-pilots usually
take turns
if one of them flies the plane for
example to singapore
the other will fly it back to sydney the
reason for this precaution is very
simple
imagine both pilots eating the same dish
and getting food poisoning
in this case neither of them will be
able to control the plane
if they still want to have the same dish
and won't agree to have anything else
there's a safety net pilots have their
meals at a different time
if one pilot ate the dish and still
feels okay
several hours later the other pilot can
brave their meal as well
it's also much safer to fly the plane
when one of the pilots is ready for
action
ever experienced such a hard landing
that you jump in your seat and go white
unlike what most travelers believe it's
not necessarily a sign of an
inexperienced pilot
there are some conditions when a gentle
touchdown is outright dangerous
the most common situation when a plane
must touch down
firmly is when the runway is wet then
the machine has to break the water
surface to avoid hydroplaning
flight attendants aren't there just to
serve food they're highly trained
professionals
they know how to deliver a baby are
skilled in hand-to-hand combat
know how to survive in extreme
conditions and can extinguish a fire
thirty thousand feet in the air
airlines are going to address the
dreaded middle seat problem pretty soon
a new design has already been developed
these improved middle seats will be a
bit lower to the ground than the aisle
and window ones
and they'll have three more inches of
additional space
most passengers have a misconception
that co-pilots are just sidekicks
or understudy characters who know little
about flying
this belief can't be further from the
truth co-pilots are totally capable of
flying a plane
and they do it regularly it's a typical
situation when the captain flies the
plane to the destination
and the co-pilot operates it on the way
back
flight attendants have the same problems
with jet lag as you do
imagine flying all the way across the
globe on a regular basis
and dealing with the dimming of cabin
lights during daylight
their bodies get confused and it doesn't
pass with time or work experience
airplane manufacturers use a special
trick to make the cabin look bigger and
more spacious
for example the walls have a particular
structure that reflects light
that and they're painted white which
always visually expands a space
the illumination between the ceiling and
overhead bins
makes the ceiling look higher it helps
people with claustrophobia to deal with
being in an enclosed space for
hours passengers are also happier when
their airplane has a wider entrance
and its lighting is brighter research
shows that in this case
people are sure that their meals taste
better and their seats are wider
while the only different thing is their
surroundings
pilots recommend nervous flyers to pick
seats in the middle of the cabin
when turbulence occurs it affects the
front and rear parts of the cabin the
most
the middle over the wing section doesn't
get shaken that much
imagine it like a seesaw
deploying an emergency slide when
there's no emergency is
a very bad idea it can cause hour-long
delays and costs airlines thousands of
dollars
to pack the undamaged slide back into
its container
why would someone do it apparently to
get off the plane faster
well just keep in mind that it doesn't
work this way
now if you want to be a pilot be
prepared for endless tests and
examinations
pilots have their skills checked every
six to eight months
they have to go into simulators and
practice all kinds of emergency
situations
after that examiners assess them regular
and technical testing and medical
examination
are also regular and crucial